Vanderbilt football kicks off its 2018 Saturday; will it be the final opener of Derek Mason’s Commodore career?

The fifth-year head coach has had a rocky tenure in Nashville, taking a step backward with a 2017 campaign that saw his team sprint out to a 3-0 start before crashing back to earth harder than a Siberia-bound asteroid (we, in retrospect, did not want Bama) and losing seven of their next eight games — all by 13 points or more. Though beating Tennessee helped restore some goodwill, Mason’s inability to field a competent SEC defense last fall has put him firmly on the hot seat this one.

Vandy welcomes a familiar foe back to Nashville in Middle Tennessee, who like regular Tennessee, has found a way to lose to the ‘Dores by double-digits in each of the past two seasons. The Blue Raiders aren’t a Power 5 opponent, but their steady offense, led by what I assume is now a mid-30s Brent Stockstill, should provide a reasonable test for a Vanderbilt defense that has to replace seven starters from last year’s 28-6 victory over MTSU. Will the Commodores be able to withstand the Blue Raiders for a third straight season? Or will Saturday begin the slow death march to an unceremonious November firing on West End?

For a defensively focused coach, Mason’s 2017 was ...unfortunate. The ‘Dores gave up more than 43 points per game last fall in SEC play. The only team to score fewer than 30 was a checked-out Tennessee team that was too busy trying to figure out a way to hire Greg Schiano to play actual football. And then that defense lost legitimate contributors like Oren Burks, Nifae Lealao, Emmanuel Smith, and Arnold Tarpley.

So, I’m not super bullish on the Vandy D this year. But now’s the time Mason’s guys — the big, under-recruited defensive backs he turned into studs at Stanford — need to step up. JoeJuan Williams will make anyone throwing to his side look stupid and Ladarius Wiley might be the SEC’s most underrated player, but guys like Frank Coppet, Randall Haynie, and Tae Daley need to make the leap for a team whose inconsistent pass rush will require some sticky coverage in the secondary.

Are they there yet? Saturday’s game could give us a glimpse, but it won’t tell the whole story. Last year’s team limited the all-conference standout Stockstill to just 166 yards and an interception, which was good. And then the rest of the season happened, which was very bad. After all 2017’s turnover, I think the MTSU veteran will be closer to his 2016 form — you know, back when he torched VU for 399 yards and three touchdowns — than his underwhelming performance last year.