UGA is the best team in the East, the second best team in the conference and probably the country. They have an explosive offense that, despite its video game talent levels, is not yet found the cheat codes. Jake Fromm, the 6’2” 225lbs Sophomore, QB1, is accurate and effective. He gets spelled by Justin Fields in a Chris Leak, Tim Tebow type way. They have more WR weapons than should be legal. They have a stable of RB’s who can all over power or outrun the opponent behind a mature offensive line resulting in a #4 ranking in Bill Connelly’s Adjusted Offensive Efficiency.

Vandy and UGA have two common opponents thus far. Both have played MTSU and USCe. UGA beat MTSU 49-7 (who give up 36.5 per game), and South Carolina 41-17 (23.5 per game). Vandy beat the Blue Raiders 35-7 and lost to South Carolina 37-14.

The Dawgs average 43.6 points per game and 219 yards rushing and 250 yards passing.

Fromm, who stepped in when Jacob Eason went down with an injury last year, and has not relinquished the starting job since. He completes 72% of his passes and has thrown for nearly 1,000 yards. He has 9 TD’s 2 INT’s in four games.

He throws from all over the field. Of his 91 attempts, 14 came inside UGA’s own 20 or the opponents’. Something interesting is that 6 of his TD’s came when the Dawgs were up 15+ points- which can technically be considered garbage time. It doesn’t mean Fromm isn’t effective or dangerous. It just means the score might be inflated as UGA buries teams with the pass.

Fromm throws evenly on 1st, 2nd, and 3rd down with a tendency to throw on 1st and 10 and 2nd & 3-7. He is highly effective on first with an 80% completion rating. 2nd down is just a bit lower with 71% completion. If there a weakness, it is his completion rate on third down at 52% on third. Essentially, the offense can pass on running downs and run on passing downs to keep defenses honest.

Fields, has been used in mop duty thus far, but has started coming in as a spell QB primarily running read option and RPO type plays, trying to find favorable numbers in the box. It is a different look for defenses to prepare for. Thus far, Fields is averaging 8.8 yards per carry. He averages 6 ypc when winning by 14 or less, so non garbage time, important plays to the UGA offense. He is highly effective in the red zone with five carries and three of them resulting in touchdowns.

The Dawgs top WR is Mecole Hardman. He is a 5’11” 183lbs Junior. He has caught 18 passes for 290 yards with 4 TD’s and a long of 59 yards. He is targeted most often between the 20’s but doesn’t get much play inside the red zone. He has most of his catches on first and second down. He is a speedy player who is used as a home run threat returner.

Riley Ridley (brother of Calvin) is a 6’2” 200 Junior who has caught 17 passes for 205 yards with 3 TD’s and 33 yard long. He is a big target and catches passes all over the field in all down and distance situation at all points during the game. He’s a big time player and weapon. Most of his receptions have come before garbage time. He is physical, difficult to cover, and is a great blocker. When WR are great blockers that signals he’s a dog and enjoys the contact. Ridley will be a handful for the Vanderbilt secondary.

Jeremiah Holloman, a 6’2” 200 Sophomore, has caught only 8 passes but they were for 208 yards and 2 TD’s . All but 46 of his yards have come in garbage time, but he is a big red zone target.

Oh, and they have a former 5-star transfer from California in Demetrius Robertson who had a 72 yard speed sweep in their opener but hasn’t seen many touches since.

TE Isaac Nautua is a big target at 6’4” 240lbs. He has only caught 8 passes because he is used for blocking most of the time. But he is a weapon if the Dawgs want him to be. So far he has 89 yards and 1 TD

In the running game, Georgia has a stable. D’Andre Swift, a 5’9” 210 lb Sophomore has 52 carries for 240 yards. He has been battling an injury most think is groin related. He was pegged as the starter for this year but has essentially split carries with Elijah Holyfield. Swift has a bulk (32) of his carries on first down.

Holyfield, a 5’11” 215lbs Junior, has 52 for 368 yards with 2 TD’s and a 66 yard long. He is a bruiser who has some shiftiness. He is used heavily from Georgia’s own 20 to the opponent’s 40. Almost 50% of carries on 1st down. He only has four carries on 3rd down.

James Cook, a true freshman and brother of Dalvin, has gotten 23 carries and has proven to be nice addition to the backfield.

The offensive line has four returning starters with a combined 69 starts, but lost Ben Cleveland to a fractured fibula for a few weeks. He has been replaced by true freshman Cade Mays, who has proven to be a good addition. It is one of the best lines in the country and gives both QB’s all the time to find all the receivers or hand it off to all the running backs.

Georgia is an elite team and will score a lot points. Although, they have not found their rhythm quite yet, which is scary. They average nearly 45 points a game, but some of those are special teams and defense. They are one of the most efficient offenses in the country rarely reaching 3rd down compared to the rest of the country. It’s hard to believe but they have had injuries to key positions and still dominate opposing defenses.