Vanderbilt (1-0) vs. Nevada (1-0) Game Preview
One Reason Why Nevada Will Win
Well that worked out just fine.

Nevadas offense might have gone against Portland State, but for a team that needed a proof of concept for its offensive style, hanging up 420 passing yards and 72 points is a big, big plus.

Obviously theres an upgrade now in opponent, but the Air Raid show should work. Ty Gangi only connected on 16-of 26 passes, but they went for 342 yards and three scores with McLane Mannix making three scoring grabs for a receiving corps that averaged 23.3 yards per grab.

Vanderbilt has a solid secondary, but its going to be under attack all game long. This is a quick-hitting passing game with a great tempo, but 

One Reason Why Vanderbilt Will Win
The secondary is coming off a fantastic performance.

The Commodores dealt with Brent Stockstill and the Middle Tennessee passing game last week, and held them to just 178 yards and seven points. And how? They generated stop after stop thanks to the pass rush.

Getting to the quarterback against Nevada is tough  its about timing and getting the ball out of the passers hands in a hurry  but the six sacks ended up stopping Middle Tennessees O time and again.

On the other side, Vandy can throw, but this is when the ground game should get going. The Wolf Pack front seven will get pounded on  Portland State just didnt do it.

 Get Tickets For This Game

Whats Going To Happen
The Nevada offense will keep on working to make this a fight, but the Commodore attack will be balanced enough to keep control throughout.

The time of possession battle will matter  Vandy will have the ball close to 40 minutes. The Wolf Pack D will wear down in the second half.

 BREAKING: Free daily ATS lock pick just released: 100% confidence release!

Fearless Prediction & Line
Vanderbilt 37, Nevada 20
Line: Vanderbilt -9, o/u: 62.5
ATS Confidence out of 5: 3

Want a 2nd opinion on who to bet on this game? Click here to get the full game side and total, 1st half and prop bets all for free from WinnersAndWhiners.com.