One Reason Why Vanderbilt Will Win
The passing game has to go off, and Georgia has to screw up.

Kyle Shurmur has been strong so far, even with a rough day against South Carolina completing fewer than half of his passes. But when he’s on, the Commodores have a differentiating factor that was good enough to stay in the game against Notre Dame – with Shurmur throwing for 326 yards – and potentially stay in the game by bombing away.

The Georgia pass defense is fine, but there’s no real pass rush to bother Shurmur. Give him time to work, and he can hit his throws to keep things moving.

The bigger overall issue is the way Georgia has played. It’s really, really, really good, so it can be a bit sloppy at times and still beat Missouri and Tennessee in blowouts. And by sloppy, it’s all relative.

It’s sloppy as in a No. 2 team in college football sort of way – like mistakes in the first half against Missouri and a wee bit of a letdown in the second half against Tennessee.

Vanderbilt needs Georgia to be really, really off for a full four quarters.

One Reason Why Georgia Will Win
Vanderbilt doesn’t score enough, and the run defense is going to have an issue.

The Commodores are able to put points on the board against the Group of Five and FCS teams on the slate, but against Notre Dame and South Carolina? 17 and 14 points, respectively.

Vandy can move the ball, but there are way too many stalled drives and way too many issues in the red zone. Against the Georgia defense, there can’t be any missed opportunities, and there will be.

The bigger issue might be the Bulldog offense that found more of a physical element last week against Tennessee.

UGA ran for 251 yards and averaged five yards per carry, helped by the 45 yards from Justin Fields stepping at times for Jake Fromm, and with four different players running for 45 yards or more.

Vanderbilt’s defensive front was plowed over by Notre Dame and South Carolina 518 yards. Georgia should make it three games of more than 200 rushing yards against FBS teams.

What’s Going To Happen
Georgia will keep on rolling, even though Shurmur will put up 200 yards and keep the Commodore offense moving a little bit.

After two games that were more than fine, but had a few blips, this will be when Georgia looks and plays even sharper with a balanced attack and another blowout win.

Best of all, this will be easy enough to get Fields and the backups in more – and the production will keep on rolling.

Fearless Prediction & Line
Georgia 40, Vanderbilt 13
Line: Georgia -26.5, o/u: 54
ATS Confidence out of 5: 2.5

Must See Rating: 2
5: First Man
1: ESPN’s Monday Night Football broadcast