Florida vs. Vanderbilt Fearless Prediction, Game Preview

Florida vs. Vanderbilt fearless prediction and game preview.

Broadcast
Date: Saturday, October 13
Game Time: 12:00 ET
Venue: Vanderbilt Stadium, Nashville, TN
Network: ESPN

 All of the CFN Fearless Predictions
 Get Tickets For This Game

Florida (5-1) vs. Vanderbilt (3-3) Game Preview
One Reason Why Florida Will Win
The Florida secondary is amazing, and the pass defense is among the nations best. Vanderbilt cant run and has to throw to win.

Goodnight, thanks for playing. Tip your waitresses.

The Gators allowed garbage yards in a few games, and in an aberration, two of Kentucky QB Terry Wilsons three touchdown passes on the year came in the lone UF loss. thats been about it.

Over the last three games against Tennessee, Mississippi State and LSU, the Florida defense has allowed no touchdown passes and came up with four picks.

On the other side, the running game has got it going on. It might not be a dominant force, but its effective. Its averaging over five yards per carry, going against a shaky Commodore defensive front thats getting pounded on against the tougher part of the schedule.

RELATED
SEC Midseason Top 10 Players, Coach Rankings, Surprises, Disappointments, 3 Bold Predictions
One Reason Why Vanderbilt Will Win
Grind it out, control the clock, keep the score close, hope to catch a few breaks.

As strong as the Florida defense has been, and as tough as the offense is playing, scoring has been an issue. This isnt a Gator team thatll come off the bus and hang 50 on the board with a high-powered passing attack.

Vanderbilts defense is struggling, and QB Kyle Shurmur is struggling after throwing for 326 yards against Notre Dame, but theres a chance this can be a bit of a slugfest.

The Gators stink when it comes to time of possession. If Vandy can connect on a few first downs and keep the clock moving, they should be in range to make this a four quarter game. The Commodores have the offensive line to keep Shurmur from getting popped too much. If he gets time, he has to be on, but 

 Free daily ATS lock pick just released: 100% confidence release!

Whats Going To Happen
Shurmur has been shaky against Florida.

He only hit 36% of his passes for 82 yards as a sophomore in the 13-6 loss, and connected on 45% of his throws  but for 245 yards and three scores  in last years 38-24 loss.

Floridas defense will stop the Commodore offense, the Gator running game will get enough production to keep the offense moving a bit, and itll be another low-scoring, effective, memory-dump win before getting two weeks to prepare for Georgia.

 Week 7 CFN Experts Picks

Fearless Prediction & Line
Florida 30, Vanderbilt 16
Line: Florida -7, o/u: 50.5
ATS Confidence out of 5: 3

Want a 2nd opinion the Florida vs. Vanderbilt game? Click here to get the side and total, 1st half and prop bets all for free from WinnersAndWhiners.com.

Must See Rating: 2.5