Notre Dame vs. Vanderbilt Fearless Prediction, Game Preview

Notre Dame vs. Vanderbilt fearless prediction and game preview.

Broadcast
Date: Saturday, September 15
Game Time: 2:30 ET
Venue: Notre Dame Stadium, South Bend, IN
Network: NBC

 All of the CFN Fearless Predictions
 Get Tickets For This Game

Notre Dame (2-0) vs. Vanderbilt (2-0) Game Preview
 Sign up for free trial: watch this and all football games live on Fubo.tv

One Reason Why Notre Dame Will Win
The secondary hasnt allowed much of anything down the field so far.

Michigan might have thrown for 249 yards, but there were a whole lot of dinks and dunks to get there  there was a ton of work for an offense that sputtered. Ball State threw for 180 yards, but again, not much was going on when it came to the big play, and so far, the Irish secondary has come up with two picks.

Kyle Shurmur has been great so far, but the Vanderbilt quarterback has had plenty of time to work against the Middle Tennessee and Nevada defenses. This week, hes not goin got have the ground game to rely on.

On the other side, the Commodore defensive front hasnt been tested yet. Notre Dames ground game has yet to bust out, but its overdue.

One Reason Why Vanderbilt Will Win
Notre Dame isnt going to be able to get the passing attack going, and its going to have to rely on a ground game thats not working

Mock wins over Middle Tennessee and Nevada if you must, but those two teams can wing the ball all over the yard. They put up a few yards against the Vandy secondary, but not enough to matter. Consider the Irish O line has been a bit shaky so far. the Commodores should be able to bring the heat, and they should be able to pressure Brandon Wimbush.

Wimbush was fine in the win over Ball State, but he has yet to go off. He hasnt been able to get free and run, and outside of the one early fantastic touchdown pass against Michigan, hes just not Aaron Rodgers when it comes to getting the ball to his receivers where they can do something with it.

He threw three picks against Ball State, the ground game that was so explosive last year is 104th in the nation, and  the offense isnt working. So far, the Vandy defense has been solid.

 Free daily ATS lock pick just released: 100% confidence release!

Whats Going To Happen
Watch  out.

If the Notre Dame that showed up against Ball State gets off the bus against Vanderbilt, its going to lose.

Shurmur has been fantastic so far, hitting 67% of his passes with four touchdowns and no mistakes. The Commodores are going to win the turnover battle, and theyre going to make it a four quarter fight. But the Irish defense will turn it on in the second half, the offense will hit two home runs with the ground game, and itll be a third straight survive-and-advance game.

It wont be pretty, but itll be 3-0.

Fearless Prediction & Line
Notre Dame 27, Vanderbilt 23
Line: Notre Dame -13.5, o/u: 52
ATS Confidence out of 5: 4

Want a 2nd opinion the Vanderbilt vs. Notre Dame game? Click here to get the side and total, 1st half and prop bets all for free from WinnersAndWhiners.com.

Must See Rating: 3