One Reason Why South Carolina Will Win
The Commodores have a few turnover problems lately.

They were able to avoid any mistakes in the opener against Middle Tennessee, but the offense gave away two in the win over Nevada, and they were a -3 in in the loss to Notre Dame.

There hasn’t been much of a pass rush over the first two games, and there have only been two takeaways, but for good and for real-world bad, this is a rested team that’s had a break after the Georgia loss.

The offensive line had a decent first two games, there haven’t been a whole slew of big mistakes – other than the really giant one early on against the Bulldogs – and the passing game is good enough to keep up the pace.

As long as Georgia wins the turnover battle, all will be fine.

One Reason Why Vanderbilt Will Win
The South Carolina secondary might still be a work in progress.

It hasn’t allowed a whole slew of yards over the first two games – just 314 – but Coastal Carolina and Georgia combined to complete 78% of their passes. The Bulldog quarterbacks took target practice in the 41-17 win in Columbia, and now it’s up to Kyle Shurmur to bomb away and keep the Commodore passing attack going.

Yeah, the ground game has been fine, but Shurmur has been the main man, hitting 64% of his passes highlighted by a 326-yard day last week in the loss to Notre Dame.

Granted, Vandy missed on its late chances to pull off the win, but it’s good enough to get the air show moving against the Gamecocks.

What’s Going To Happen
Vanderbilt will be tough enough and good enough to screw up a Gamecock team with high hopes coming into the season. But don’t go by what happened against Georgia.

That’s a special Bulldog team with national championship upside, and South Carolina is better than it looked in that tough, blowout home loss. The time off will help.

The defense will be solid against the Commodore offense, and Jake Bentley and the Gamecock attack will be strong enough to keep the chains moving, keep Shurmur off the field, and come up with a good win.

South Carolina have won nine straight in the series – the last loss a 24-17 stunner early in 2008 – and it’ll make it ten. But it’s not going to be easy.

Fearless Prediction & Line
South Carolina 23, Vanderbilt 17
Line: South Carolina -3, o/u: 53.5
ATS Confidence out of 5: 3.5

Must See Rating: 3
5: Mandy
1: Murphy Brown
