Vanderbilt at Arkansas Fearless Prediction, Game Preview

Vanderbilt (3-5) vs. Arkansas (2-6) Game Preview
One Reason Why Vanderbilt Will Win
Turnovers, turnovers, turnovers.

Vanderbilt needs them, and Arkansas will give them away.

The Hog defense might be coming up with takeaways here and there, but the O will be good for at least an interception, and it should give it up at least two times overall. For a Vanderbilt offense thats sputtering too much, it has to take advantage of the opportunities.

It also needs field position.

The Hogs have the leagues worst punting game, and the Commodores have a good enough return game to get by. Vandy is okay at tilting the field a bit.

Go +2 in turnover margin, bog the game down with field position, and keep the score low. Against the middling Arkansas O, Vandy can do that, but 

One Reason Why Arkansas Will Win

Grind, grind, grind, grind, grind.

Arkansas might not have a big-time offense, but its great at controlling the clock and the defense is impressive at coming up with third down stops. Vanderbilt also doesnt have a big-time offense, and its awful at controlling the clock and coming up with third downs stops.

The Commodores are dead last  and 119th in the SEC  in third down defense, allowing teams to convert 47% of their tries.

This isnt going to be any sort of a shootout. Getting points will be like pulling teeth, and possessions will matter.

Getting Storey back will be a huge help. He wont bomb away, but he threw for 230 yards against Alabama and completed 12-of-15 passes against Ole Miss. Just being okay might just be good enough.

Whats Going To Happen
Neither team has the offensive pop, but the Arkansas defense will be just a wee bit better, and the there will be just a bit more offensive balance.

Dont expect a thing of beauty. Itll be a low scoring battle with the mistakes being a huge deal. Vanderbilt will make a few more of them, and Arkansas will overcome a sluggish offensive day by generating points off of two takeaway.

Fearless Prediction & Line
Arkansas 26, Vanderbilt 24
Line: Vanderbilt -1.5, o/u: 52.5
ATS Confidence out of 5: 1.5