One Reason Why Vanderbilt Will Win
It’s hard to say Kentucky was exposed after losing in overtime on the road at a place like Texas A&M, and it’s even more off to to assume that it was anything we didn’t already know – UK doesn’t throw.

Terry Wilson has been excellent for the Wildcat offense, but he hasn’t thrown for more than 160 yards against an FBS team, and he’s not pushing a thing down the field. He’ll be accurate on his midrange throws, but stop the run, stop Kentucky.

This isn’t an explosive UK attack, and it’s not going to come out and put up 55 points. This should be a low-scoring, tough game that gears down to Vanderbilt’s speed.

It should come down to the little things.

Vanderbilt doesn’t commit a ton of penalties – UK will get flagged at least three times more – turnovers aren’t an issue, and the offensive line is strong in pass protection.

Hang around … hang around … hang around … and hope to come through when needed late. But …

One Reason Why Kentucky Will Win
Vanderbilt can’t stop the run, and now Kentucky is rested.

The Commodore defensive front doesn’t get into the backfield, and it doesn’t do enough to generate key stops. So far this season, the D has been hammered for over 200 yards on the ground four times – and lost all four games. In the three wins, it gave up 116 rushing yards or fewer.

Kentucky has rushed for 195 yards or more in every game but the loss to Texas A&M, and Vandy’s defensive front isn’t A&M’s.

The real killer for the Commodores is their inability to convert on third downs and their SEC-last problems at stopping teams on third downs. Yeah, this will be a grinding game, and it’ll be disastrous for Vandy if it can’t get Benny Snell and company off the field.

Last year against the Commodores, Snell ran for 116 yards and three touchdowns, and ran for 94 yards as a freshman. UK won both games.

What’s Going To Happen
Snell is about to go Snell.

Vanderbilt played Florida well, and it was able to hang on and keep it close until late. It’ll be the same script.

Kentucky will run and run some more, it’ll control the clock, control the game, and get a tough 150 yards from Snell to keep the SEC East title dream alive.

Fearless Prediction & Line
Kentucky 27, Vanderbilt 13
Line: Kentucky -11.5, o/u: 48
ATS Confidence out of 5: 3

Must See Rating: 2.5
5: Bohemian Rhapsody
1: A Star Is Born
