Vanderbilt took too long to get going this time
Slow start at Notre Dame was too much to overcome

AUTHORS David Boclair

Derek Mason was quick to point out what went wrong for Vanderbilt against Notre Dame.

For us, it's another slow start, he said.

To say the Commodores have been a second-half team thus far in 2018 is an understatement. A serious understatement. And Saturdays 22-17 loss at Notre Dame was no different.

They have outscored the opposition 59-6 in the final two quarters (31-0 in the third, 28-6 in the fourth). That was enough to eventually pull away to victories over Middle Tennessee and Nevada. Against the Fighting Irish, though, the Commodores spent the entire day trying to catch up  and they could not quite get there.

Their only touchdowns came after halftime, one each in the third and fourth quarters. They outgained Notre Dame 240-133 and had nearly twice as many first downs (15-8) in the second half.

The issue was an early 16-0 deficit, which was the product of three three-and-outs by the offense in its first four possessions and a pair of long scoring drives the defense allowed at the start. Notre Dame went 74 yards in 10 plays for a field goal on its first possession and 15 plays and 94 yards for a touchdown on its second.

Vanderbilts first points came from a field goal as time expired to end the first half.

I thought we played even, Mason said. If you play Notre Dame even at Notre Dame, you're going to lose.

The Commodores led MTSU 14-7 at halftime but had been outgained 145-89. They outscored the Blue Raiders 21-0 and outgained them 257-149 in the second half.

Against Nevada, Vanderbilt led 17-10 at halftime despite two lost fumbles and a failed fourth down attempt. It won the second half 24-0.

I told my team in the end that we didn't do enough (Saturday), Mason said. There are no moral victories in this game. You win and you lose, that's it. Let's not try to sugarcoat it with 'We had a chance.' That's not what you're looking for. You're looking for a win. Got a chance to win it, let's win it. Football is judged on wins and losses.

Not by halves.