Reasons to believe: Vanderbilt at Arkansas
One of the SEC's three remaining winless teams in conference play is going to get its first victory

AUTHORS David Boclair

Somebody is going to get a win. Finally.

There are three SEC teams that have yet to win a conference game this season. Two of them are Vanderbilt (3-5, 0-4) and Arkansas (2-6, 0-4), which play against one another Saturday at Fayetteville (11 a.m., SEC Network).

Good football is good football, Vanderbilt coach Derek Mason said. We play in the best conference in college football and if you want to see good football, tune in.

 You can look at this Vanderbilt team and four of our five losses [overall] are to top 15-ranked opponents. When you look at (Arkansas) record, theyve had some tough losses.

For the record, Missouri (4-3, 0-3) is the other SEC team without a conference victory  and is the Commodores next opponent, following an open date.

  
Three reasons to believe Vanderbilt will win Saturday

 Coaching continuity: The most significant change on Vanderbilts coaching staff since last season was the addition of defensive coordinator Jason Tarver, who basically runs the same scheme as Mason. Arkansas has a new staff and new schemes under first-year coach Chad Morris and  based on the results  is still in the adjustment period. The Commodores should have a comfort level that the Razorbacks do not.

 Up for grabs: Arkansas has thrown more interceptions (by a wide margin) than any other SEC team with 13 and has committed the most turnovers (17). Vanderbilt is fourth in the conference with 14 takeaways and has a plus-2 turnover ratio. This game might have less to do with which team wins than it does with which team beats itself, and Arkansas has been much more prone to the latter.

 Keep it clean: The Commodores are the SECs least-penalized team (seventh in the country) with an average of 38.9 yards per game marked off against them. Arkansas is third in the SEC with an average of 51.6 penalty yards per game. Again, this is issue related to which team might make the type of mistakes that could determine the outcome. Once again, Vanderbilt is less likely to catch the officials attention.

  
Three reasons to believe Vanderbilt will lose Saturday

 Seeing red: Arkansas might not have the SECs most productive offense, but it knows what to do when it gets close to the goal line. The Razorbacks have scored on 88.9 percent of their red zone possessions, which ranks fifth in the conference. Their 24 scores are equally divided between touchdowns and field goals but they take care of the ball and score points when they get close. In this game, every point is bound to matter.

 A leg up: Razorbacks kicker Connor Limpert has made at least one field goal in nine straight games and has made his last 10 overall. He was 4-for-4 against Ole Miss, which no Arkansas kicker had done in a decade. Four of his 15 field goals have been from 40 yards or more. Vanderbilts Riley Guay has made barely half his field goal attempts (8-for-14). So if this game is close and comes down to a kick, its advantage Arkansas.

 Going deep: Ten different Arkansas players have at least one reception for 20 yards or more led by wide receiver LaMichael Pettway with five. As a team, the Razorbacks average just 6.7 yards per passing attempt but they will take their shots downfield in a lot of different ways. Vanderbilt has allowed more touchdown passes than all but three SEC teams. So the challenge for the Commodores secondary members will be to keep the Razorbacks receivers from getting behind them.

  
The bottom line

This is probably Vanderbilts last, best chance to keep alive its fading bowl hopes. You can make the case that the Commodores have a good chance to win against each of their four remaining opponents, but this might be their best chance.

Winning in Fayetteville is never an easy thing. But if they dont win this one, theyll have to win each of their last three in order to become bowl-eligible  and that seems like a particularly tall order for this bunch.