Reasons to believe: Vanderbilt vs. Florida
Gators have played (and won) big games each of the last three weeks, have feasted on turnovers

AUTHORS David Boclair

Things could be better. They also could be  and often have been  worse.

Vanderbilt is 3-3 overall but has yet to win a Southeastern Conference game (0-2). So all is not lost, but the Commodores have to win some conference games  they are all that remains  if they are to qualify for a postseason bowl and have any kind of impact in the SEC East race.

"Now is the time where, if you look at it, you're halfway through the season, coach Derek Mason said. You're heading into the first game on the backside of that. If you're going to make the run, you've got to make a run now. So, let's make a run."

Their first chance to get going is Saturday when they host No. 14 Florida (11 a.m., ESPN), their final home game for more than a month.

  
Three reasons to believe Vanderbilt will win Saturday

Right time, right place: In the last three weeks, Florida faced one of its top rivals (Tennessee), its head coachs former team (No. 23 Mississippi State) and a top-five opponent (No. 5 LSU) and won all three. If the Gators are going to have a letdown, this would be the spot. And the fact that the game is at Vanderbilt Stadium, where the atmosphere pales in comparison to other SEC venues, wont provide much of an emotional lift.

Know the score: Vanderbilt is averaging 25.2 points per game. That is not among the SECs best but it is on pace for the highest-scoring season of the Mason era. There have been times in the previous four seasons when it was fair to wonder how the Commodores would score. Now, with player such as quarterback Kyle Shurmur, wide receiver Kalija Lipscomb (pictured) and running back KeShawn Vaughn, the only question if theyre going to score enough to beat a team like Florida.

Getting started: Vanderbilt is seventh in the SEC with an average of 22.3 yards per kickoff return and Jamauri Wakefield is third individually with an average of 22.4 yards. Florida is last at 15.7 yards per return but leads the league in kickoff coverage with a net average of 43.2 yards. If the Commodores can find a way to enhance field position against that unit, it will help the offense, which figures to have a difficult time driving the length of the field.

  
Three reasons to believe Vanderbilt will lose Saturday

Possession is law: Florida leads the SEC with 17 takeaways, which matches its total for all of 2017, and a plus-11 turnover margin. The Gators have recovered 11 fumbles while only four other conference schools have at least 11 total takeaways. Vanderbilt has lost five fumbles, which is more than every SEC team except Tennessee and Auburn and is even in turnover ratio for the season. The Commodores best bet to win a game like this is to win the turnover battle, and that is one Florida is not likely to lose.

Ferocious front: The Gators are tied for third in the country with 20 sacks and tied for 11th with 48 tackles for loss. In the last two weeks alone, they have racked up 11 and 19, respectively. Three players  Vosean Joseph, Jachal Politte and Jabari Zuniga  have at least six and half tackles for loss. Only three other schools (none are in the SEC) can say the same thing. Vanderbilt has shuffled its offensive line in recent weeks in search of the best combination. Florida is a team that can make that unit look bad.

Big gains: Florida has seven plays (four passes, three runs) for gains of at least 30 yards, which already is as many as it had in the past two years combined. The Gators average more than 5.2 yards per carry on run plays, which ranks 25th nationally. Overall, they average 6.2 yards per play, which is only marginally better than Vanderbilt (6.1), but they are much more likely to get yards in chunks.

  
The bottom line

Vanderbilt has gone toe-to-toe with its SEC opponents for a time but not for four full quarters. Until the Commodores show they can sustain that level for an entire contest, there is no reason to think theyre going to beat any of the conferences better teams, particularly one like Florida that has shown it can beat top opposition.