Shurmur on target in victory over Nevada
Vanderbilt quarterback spreads the ball around, sets personal best for single-game completion percentage

AUTHORS David Boclair

Kyle Shurmur was not perfect on Saturday.

But he was close. Or at least as close as he has come as a college quarterback.

The Vanderbilt senior completed 23 of 32 passes in the Commodores 41-10 victory over Nevada at Vanderbilt Stadium. A starter since late in his freshman season, it was just the second time in his career he attempted more than 20 passes and completed more than 70 percent of them.

His 71.9 completion percentage on the day was the best of his career against an FBS opponent.

Also, Shurmur's 23 completions were the most he has thrown in a victory. There have been four games in which he has connected on more passes but in all four he had to throw often in an attempt (ultimately unsuccessful) to catch up. In this case, he completed seven of nine passes in a scoreless first quarter, nine of 14 in the second (which ended with the Commodores on top 17-10) and seven of eight in the third quarter, when VU took control with 17 more points.

I thought Shurmur did a great job all day long, coach Derek Mason said. He really directed traffic. Thats who he is. Thats what he does.

A rundown of the Kyle Shurmers best single-game completion percentages:

Shurmur spread around his throws to eight different targets  four wide receivers, two tight ends and two running backs. Six of the eight finished with multiple receptions.
His first choice most of the day was junior wide receiver Kalija Lipscomb, who was targeted 11 times and caught 10 passes for 85 yards. Lipscomb also was on the receiving end of Shurmurs two touchdown passes.

Tight end Jared Pinkney was next with four receptions for 98 yards, which made it one of the most productive days of his career. Only once had the junior caught more passes in a game and never had he averaged so much per reception.

Among the others were true freshman Cam Johnson, who notched the first two catches of his college career, tight end Sam Dobbs, who caught his first two passes of the season, and running back KeShawn Vaughn, who had his first multi-reception game with the Commodores.

Yeah I have good chemistry with a lot of guys, Shurmur said. Obviously, (Pinkney) and (Lipscomb) have been here the longest. Chemistry takes time to develop so its just a result of us playing together for a few years.

 I think as a whole all of us need to play to our potential.

He was one who came awful close on Saturday.