Vanderbilt squandered its fleeting early chances to scare No. 2 Georgia and lost 41-13 to the Bulldogs Saturday.
The Commodores (3-3, 0-2 SEC) drove the field on the Bulldogs’ defense, but they couldn’t punch it into the end zone in early scoring opportunities. Georgia (6-0, 4-0 SEC) responded with quick turnaround touchdowns, and Vanderbilt was pressed into catch-up mode the remainder of the night.

Here are five things we learned from Vanderbilt’s loss:

Vanderbilt missed its touchdown chances
Vanderbilt reached Georgia territory on four straight drives in the first half, marching 50, 35, 81 and 51 yards. But it managed only two field goals and a failed fourth-down play.

said quarterback Kyle Shurmur, who was 14-of-28 passing for 169 yards. 

Big plays were made, but also squandered because the drives didn’t end in touchdowns. Ke’Shawn Vaughn broke a 43-yard run just two minutes into the game, but he couldn’t reach the end zone on the sideline scamper. Vanderbilt settled for a field goal.

Khari Blasingame had a 19-yard run and 22-yard reception on a screen pass on back-to-back plays, but the Commodores were stopped on downs on an 81-yard scoreless drive in the second quarter. Vanderbilt never had another chance to make Saturday's game a competitive one.

Georgia made the Commodores pay, quickly
When Vanderbilt missed key opportunities, Georgia seized the momentum. After the Commodores settled for a first-quarter field goal, the Bulldogs answered with Jake Fromm’s 75-yard TD pass to Terry Godwin on the next play from scrimmage. Vanderbilt led for only 15 seconds of game clock.
And when Vanderbilt’s 81-yard drive yielded no points, Georgia responded with a lightning-quick eight-play, 86-yard TD drive in less than three minutes. Elijah Holyfield capped it with a 24-yard TD run, and the rout began.

Kicker Ryley Guay will keep his job
A week ago, Mason said he would re-open the placekicking competition after Ryley Guay missed two field goals against Tennessee State. Guay, a junior walk-on, reacted well to the pressure. He made a 26-yard field goal and a career-long 43-yarder for Vanderbilt’s only points of the first half. Entering the night, he was 0-for-3 on kicks of 40 yards or longer.

Short-yardage calls turned the game
Faced with a key third-down and a pair of fourth-down plays, Vanderbilt gained little. Those situations dictated the score and momentum early in the game.

On third-and-1 from the 5, Blasingame was blasted in the backfield for a 2-yard loss. Maybe the Commodores would have gone for it on fourth down. But after the third-down loss, they took the easy points with Guay’s 26-yard field goal for a 3-0 lead.

On fourth-and-1 from the 14, the decision was tougher. Mason said he went for it because even a failure would give Georgia a long field to drive, and

Vanderbilt lined up in shotgun with one running back going in motion toward the sideline and Blasingame getting the hand-off up the middle. Georgia wasn’t fooled enough, and it tackled Blasingame just past the line of scrimmage and well short of the first-down marker. Mason said he liked the play call, but it didn't work because an offensive guard missed a block.

Vanderbilt was not at full strength
Starting outside linebacker Charles Wright (unspecified injury) and defensive lineman Louis Vecchio (illness) did not play. Mason said both should return for next week's home game against Florida.
Wright is one of Vanderbilt’s best pass rushers. Vecchio, a Penn graduate transfer and former All-Ivy League performer, has been in the defensive line rotation all season. In Vecchio’s absence, freshman Tyler Steen made his college debut on the defensive line.
Also, starting center Egidio DellaRipa, who was injured against Tennessee State a week earlier, was in uniform, but Bruno Reagan started in his spot. On the positive side, outside linebacker Josh Smith returned after missing the TSU game due to injury. He started and partnered with safety Tae Daley for a sack.
