Vanderbilt ran away with its second straight lopsided home win, beating Nevada 41-10 Saturday.

The Commodores, who thumped MTSU 35-7 last week, are 2-0 and headed to No. 8 Notre Dame next Saturday (1:30 p.m., NBC), but coach Derek Mason isn't satisfied.

"This was kind of sloppy to be honest," Mason said. "... Our best football hasn't been played. 
I'm not being greedy. 
I'm just trying to ask our guys to grab what's out there to be had."

Here are five things we learned from their win over Nevada:

Kyle Shurmur connects with Kalija Lipscomb and more

The best news for quarterback Kyle Shurmur is that he didnt have to rely too heavily on Kalija Lipscomb to pass for 258 yards. 
Sure, Shurmur hit Lipscomb for a pair of TDs, a 2-yarder and an 11-yarder. 
And Lipscomb finished with a career-high 10 receptions for 85 yards. 
But Shurmur also connected with tight end Jared Pinkney (four catches for 98 yards) and wide receivers Chris Pierce (two for 21 yards) and Sam Dobbs (two for 20 yards). 
Freshman Cam Johnson, a former Brentwood Academy standout, made his first career catch.

Josh Smith bullied Nevada in backfield

Senior linebacker Josh Smith had his best game since starring at Oakland High.
Smith was a menace in the Nevada backfield, piling up a career-high 10 total tackles, three tackles for loss and a pass break-up. 
He helped spearhead the Vanderbilt defense, which held Nevada to 34 rushing yards on 25 attempts.

Mason said he challenged Smith to match sophomore Kenny Hebert's play from the opening win over MTSU, and Smith responded. 
"He challenges me every week," Smith said. 
"But this was just a week to play fast, play hard and use my hands to get off blocks."

KeShawn Vaughn taking lead role

The preseason assumption that Illinois transfer KeShawn Vaughn would become the No. 1 running back moved closer to reality. 
Vaughn, a former Pearl-Cohn standout, made his first start, scored his first two TDs from 7 and 46 yards, and led the Commodores with 93 rushing yards. 
Khari Blasingame and Jamauri Wakefield were still part of a three-back rotation, Josh Crawford scored a fourth-quarter TD. 
But Vaughn took the leading role in a ground attack that rushed for 198 yards.

"Ke'Shawn Vaughn flashed and showed us that he's the back we thought he was," Mason said. 
"I can say the same about the Khari and the same about Jamauri.
We just have a pretty talented backfield."

Kenny Hebert is no one-hit wonder

Sophomore linebacker Kenny Heberts two sacks in the opener were no fluke. 
They apparently were the beginning of his role as big-play defender. 
Hebert stripped the ball from quarterback Ty Gangi on a blitz and recovered it at the 7. 
It set up a Vanderbilt TD two plays later. 
A week ago, Hebert made the first two sacks of his career against MTSU after recording only one tackle in four games as a freshman in 2017.

Vanderbilt's defense had four turnovers, which led to 21 points. 
Joejuan Williams, a former Father Ryan standout, and redshirt freshman Allan George each made the first interception of their career. 

This couldve been a blowout sooner

Give Vanderbilt credit for running away with the win, but it couldve done so much sooner if not for some unforced errors. 
The Commodores squandered two trips to the red zone with no points in the first quarter. 
Wide receiver Chris Pierce lost a fumble at the 11 on the opening drive. 
The Commodores failed to score on three runs and one pass, beginning with a first-and-goal from the 3. 
And they settled for a field goal that reached the 7. 
Finishing drives will be a focus before playing at Notre Dame.

