Vanderbilt avoided an upset, winning 31-27 over crosstown FCS foe Tennessee State on Saturday.
The Commodores trailed 13-10 at halftime and 27-24 midway through the fourth quarter before rallying with Kyle Shurmur's 68-yard touchdown pass to Kalija Lipscomb and finishing it off with a fourth-down stop on TSU's final drive.

Vanderbilt (3-2) will play at No. 3 Georgia (5-0) next Saturday. But, first, here are five things we learned from the Commodores’ narrow win over TSU:

Kalija Lipscomb keeps catching touchdowns

Lipscomb had nine catches for a career-high 174 yards and the 15th and 16th TD receptions of his 29-game career. On a deep slant, Lipscomb extended his body for a 38-yard diving catch of a dart from Shurmur on the opening drive of the third quarter, earning Vanderbilt its first lead at 17-13. And with 6:20 remaining in the game, Lipscomb had a 68-yard TD catch to put the Commodores up 31-27.
said Shurmur, sitting alongside Lipscomb in the post-game press conference. "Hats off to this guy for making a play."
They were Lipscomb’s fifth and sixth scores in five games this season. Jordan Matthews, the SEC’s all-time leading receiver, owns the Vanderbilt career record with 24 TD catches. Lipscomb has a season and half to catch him.

Vanderbilt kicking job now open
After Ryley Guay went 1-of-3 on field goals, Mason said, 
Guay, a junior walk-on, beat out freshman signee Javan Rice for the placekicking job in the preseason. But he missed a 27-yarder in the second quarter and a 46-yarder in the fourth. He also made a 20-yard field goal on the final play of the first half.
Guay has made 4-of-8 field goals this season, missing all three attempts from 40 yards or longer. 

Ke’Shawn Vaughn broke loose against hometown team
Former Pearl-Cohn standout Ke’Shawn Vaughn, an Illinois transfer, had his best game as a Commodore. Vaughn broke a zig-zagging 78-yard TD in the third quarter, the longest run for a Vanderbilt player since Zac Stacy’s 90-yarder against Wake Forest on Nov. 26, 2012.

Vaughn finished with 146 rushing yards on 17 carries for his first 100-yard game since going for 116 against North Carolina in 2016, then as a sophomore at Illinois. Khari Blasingame added 88 rushing yards for Vanderbilt.

Kyle Shurmur threw two uncharacteristic interceptions
Give Shurmur credit for completing 17 of his final 20 passes, including three touchdowns. But also assign blame to him for another poor start.

Shurmur tossed two interceptions in the first quarter after throwing only two in the first four games. It marked only the fifth time in Shurmur’s 36-game career that he has thrown multiple interceptions.
For a fourth straight game, Vanderbilt failed to score in the first quarter. The Commodores have not put a point on the board in the first quarter since scoring a TD on the opening drive of the season in a win over MTSU.
Vanderbilt has won seven straight over Tennessee schools
It wasn’t easy, but the Commodores continued their winning streak against schools from Tennessee. Vanderbilt has won seven straight over in-state foes, dating back to 2016. That includes three wins over MTSU, two over TSU and two over Tennessee. But this was the first game in that streak to be decided by a single-digit margin. The Commodores have outscored their in-state opponents 263-139 in the winning streak.
