How Vanderbilt football finally used Ke'Shawn Vaughn, and how it changes season

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark.  Vanderbilt left Arkansas with a 45-31 win Saturday and two big questions about its newly-utilized offensive weapon.

Why hasnt KeShawn Vaughn been featured all season? And can he make the difference in a possible bowl run?

Both are relevant questions after Vaughn, a former Pearl-Cohn standout and an Illinois transfer who ripped off 172 rushing yards and three touchdowns in a much-needed win.

Vaughns big game is simple math

Vaughns lack of carries has been an easy point of criticism all season. Despite touting obvious big-play ability, he averaged only 10 rushing attempts in the first seven games.

Against Arkansas, he had a career-high 26 carries and remained fresh late in the game.

I feel like hes had games like this all season, tight end Jared Pinkney said. Its just when he gets 26 carries, the yards pile up. Youve seen that hes averaged like (6.8) yards (per carry) all year. So give him more carries, and the yards will come. Its simple math.

Vaughn, Khari Blasingame and Jamauri Wakefield divided carries in a three-back rotation in the first half of the season. Two weeks ago, coach Derek Mason said Vaughn would be the featured back, but he suffered an injury in that role in the second quarter against Florida and sat out the following game against Kentucky.

Win allowed patience, better play-calling

Vaughns breakout game didnt merely come because he took carries away from other ball-carriers. Vanderbilt led Arkansas for most of the day, which allowed it to rack up 49 rushing attempts as a team  10 more than any other game this season.

Blasingame still had 10 carries, and five other players shared 13 rushing attempts.

The more plays you have, the more you can feature your guys, Mason said.  These tools have been available all season. But sometimes we can be slightly predictable.

Vaughn broke a 63-yard TD run in the first quarter, rested for most of the second quarter and then sealed the win with two scores in the fourth quarter. He needed breaks after sitting out of practice for 10 days due to an injury.

Mason said offensive coordinator Andy Ludwig did a masterful job, in patiently using Vaughn, but that was more manageable with a lead.

Can Vaughn do it again?
There may be a silver lining to Vaughns low number of carries this season. He should be fresh for the stretch run, which will continue after the bye week.

To reach bowl eligibility, Vanderbilt must win two of its remaining three games against Missouri (Nov. 10), Ole Miss (Nov. 17) and Tennessee (Nov. 24), and Vaughn could be an X-factor.

Quarterback Kyle Shurmur joked, Well, he got a break for a few weeks, so hes ready to go.

Offense better in every way with Vaughn
Shurmur should be the biggest beneficiary to a Vaughn-centric offense. Against Arkansas, he was efficient, completing 13 of 19 passes for 192 yards, two TDs and no interceptions.

The attention on Vaughn also opened up play-action passes, misdirection runs by freshman JaVeon Marlow, quarterback keepers by backup Mo Hasan and screen passes to Blasingame and Pinkney.

As an offense, everything is cohesive and works off each other, Shurmur said. If youre running the ball well, its sets up the play action. And when you drop back to pass, it really gets those pass-rushers going fast, which sets up the screen. Once you really run the ball and stay balanced, I think you are unpredictable.

It sounds good. Now, Vaughn and Vanderbilt must repeat their productive performance.